.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\" Modifications Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutCopyColormap 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutCopyColormap - copies the color map from the current window to the specified window.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutCopyColormap(int window);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
The identifier of the window to copy the color map to.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutCopyColormap copies the color map entries from the current window to the specified window. Both windows should be color index windows. If not, an error occurs.

This function is useful for ensuring consistent colors between multiple windows in color index mode, especially when one window has been configured with a specific color palette.

Note that color index mode is increasingly uncommon in modern OpenGL applications, which typically use RGBA mode. This function primarily exists for legacy applications and compatibility.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Create a main window with a custom color palette */
int mainWindow = glutCreateWindow("Main Window");
glutSetWindow(mainWindow);

/* Set up the color palette for the main window */
glutSetColor(0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0);      /* Black */
glutSetColor(1, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0);      /* Red */
glutSetColor(2, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0);      /* Green */
glutSetColor(3, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0);      /* Blue */
/* ... set more colors ... */

/* Create a secondary window */
int secondWindow = glutCreateWindow("Second Window");

/* Copy the color map from the main window to the secondary window */
glutSetWindow(mainWindow);
glutCopyColormap(secondWindow);

/* Now both windows have the same color map */
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutSetColor, glutGetColor, glutSetWindow
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
.SH ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
FreeGLUT contributors
