.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutInitContextFunc 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutInitContextFunc, glutInitWindowFunc - set callbacks that will be run before/after context and window creation.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutInitContextFunc(void (*callback)(void));
void glutInitWindowFunc(void (*callback)(void));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcallback\fP 1i
The callback function to be called before context creation or after window creation.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions allow setting callbacks that are called during window/context creation. They provide hooks to execute custom code at key points during window initialization.

glutInitContextFunc sets a callback that is executed just before each OpenGL context is created. This allows applications to set context attributes or perform other actions before the context is created.

glutInitWindowFunc sets a callback that is executed immediately after each window is created. This allows applications to perform window-specific setup after creation but before the window is shown.

These functions are particularly useful for advanced OpenGL applications that need fine-grained control over the window and rendering context creation process.

These functions are FreeGLUT extensions and are not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Context initialization callback */
void contextInit(void)
{
    /* Set up context parameters before context creation */
    printf("About to create OpenGL context\\n");

    /* Example: On Windows, you could set pixel format parameters here */
}

/* Window initialization callback */
void windowInit(void)
{
    /* Set up window parameters after window creation */
    printf("Window created, ID: %d\\n", glutGetWindow());

    /* Set window-specific data or state */
    WindowState *state = malloc(sizeof(WindowState));
    state->initialized = 1;
    glutSetWindowData(state);
}

/* In initialization code */
glutInitContextFunc(contextInit);
glutInitWindowFunc(windowInit);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutCreateWindow, glutSetWindow, glutSetWindowData
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors