.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutSolidTeaspoon 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSolidTeaspoon, glutWireTeaspoon - render a solid or wireframe teaspoon respectively
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSolidTeaspoon(GLdouble size);
void glutWireTeaspoon(GLdouble size);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIsize\fP 1i
Relative size of the teaspoon.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSolidTeaspoon and glutWireTeaspoon render a solid or wireframe teaspoon respectively. The teaspoon is rendered centered at the modeling coordinates origin with a size specified by the size parameter.

The teaspoon model is part of the "Utah teapot" set, which includes a teapot, teacup, and teaspoon. These are commonly used 3D models in computer graphics, originally created by Martin Newell in 1975.

These functions are FreeGLUT extensions and are not available in the original GLUT library, which only provided the teapot.

Texture coordinates are generated for the teaspoon, making it usable with textured rendering. If GLUT_GEOMETRY_VISUALIZE_NORMALS has been set to true using glutSetOption, the normal vectors for each vertex will also be visualized.

.SH SEE ALSO
glutSolidTeapot, glutSolidTeacup, glutSolidSphere, glutSolidCube, glutSolidCone, glutSolidTorus, glutSolidDodecahedron, glutSolidOctahedron, glutSolidTetrahedron, glutSolidIcosahedron, glutSolidRhombicDodecahedron, glutWireTeapot, glutWireTeacup, glutSetOption, glutSetVertexAttribCoord3, glutSetVertexAttribNormal, glutSetVertexAttribTexCoord2
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors