.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutPositionFunc 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutPositionFunc - sets the window position change callback for the current window.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutPositionFunc(void (*callback)(int x, int y));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcallback\fP 1i
The new window position callback function.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutPositionFunc sets the window position change callback for the current window. The window position callback is triggered when the window changes position on the screen.

The callback function receives the new (x, y) position of the window's upper-left corner, in screen coordinates.

This function is useful for applications that need to track window movement, synchronize with other windows, or adjust rendering based on screen position.

If the callback parameter is NULL, the window position callback is disabled.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
void positionCallback(int x, int y)
{
    /* Handle window position change */
    printf("Window moved to position (%d, %d)\\n", x, y);

    /* You might want to adjust rendering based on position */
    /* For example, an application showing multiple views might 
       update which view is shown based on screen position */
}

/* In initialization code */
glutPositionFunc(positionCallback);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutPositionWindow, glutReshapeFunc, glutWindowStatusFunc
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors