.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutWarpPointer 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutWarpPointer - repositions the mouse pointer to the given window coordinates.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutWarpPointer(int x, int y);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
New X position for mouse pointer in window coordinates.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
New Y position for mouse pointer in window coordinates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutWarpPointer repositions the mouse pointer to the given window coordinates. The coordinates are relative to the origin of the current window, with the origin at the upper left corner of the window.

This function can be useful for setting an initial cursor position, implementing camera control schemes that require resetting the cursor to a central position, or for other situations where programmatic control of the cursor position is needed.

Note that the actual behavior may be platform-dependent. Some platforms or window systems might impose restrictions on cursor warping for security reasons.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Center the cursor in the current window */
void centerCursor(void)
{
    int width = glutGet(GLUT_WINDOW_WIDTH);
    int height = glutGet(GLUT_WINDOW_HEIGHT);
    glutWarpPointer(width / 2, height / 2);
}

/* Use in a mouse rotation handler to provide continuous rotation */
void mouseMotion(int x, int y)
{
    static int lastX = 0, lastY = 0;
    static int firstCall = 1;

    if (firstCall) {
        lastX = x;
        lastY = y;
        firstCall = 0;
        return;
    }

    /* Calculate rotation based on mouse movement */
    int deltaX = x - lastX;
    int deltaY = y - lastY;

    /* Apply rotation to the model */
    yRotation += deltaX * 0.5;
    xRotation += deltaY * 0.5;

    /* Reset cursor to center to allow continuous rotation */
    int width = glutGet(GLUT_WINDOW_WIDTH);
    int height = glutGet(GLUT_WINDOW_HEIGHT);
    if (x != width/2 || y != height/2) {
        lastX = width/2;
        lastY = height/2;
        glutWarpPointer(lastX, lastY);
    }

    glutPostRedisplay();
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutSetCursor, glutMotionFunc, glutPassiveMotionFunc, glutMouseFunc
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors
