.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutSetOption 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSetOption - sets a FreeGLUT library option.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSetOption(GLenum option, int value);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIoption\fP 1i
The option to set. Valid values include:
.TP 8
.B GLUT_ACTION_ON_WINDOW_CLOSE
What to do when user closes a window.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_CURSOR
The cursor to use for newly created windows.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_SKIP_STALE_MOTION_EVENTS
Whether to skip stale motion events (mouse motion coalescing).
.TP 8
.B GLUT_MULTISAMPLE
The number of samples for multisampling.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT
Type of rendering context to create.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GEOMETRY_VISUALIZE_NORMALS
Whether to visualize normals when rendering geometry objects.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT_VERSION_MAJOR
Major version number for OpenGL context.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT_VERSION_MINOR
Minor version number for OpenGL context.
.IP \fIvalue\fP 1i
The value to set for the specified option. Valid values depend on the option.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSetOption sets a global option affecting the behavior of the FreeGLUT library. This function provides a way to customize various aspects of FreeGLUT's behavior that weren't configurable in the original GLUT library.

For GLUT_ACTION_ON_WINDOW_CLOSE, valid values are:
.TP 8
.B GLUT_ACTION_EXIT
Exit the program when a window is closed (default).
.TP 8
.B GLUT_ACTION_GLUTMAINLOOP_RETURNS
Return from glutMainLoop when the last window is closed.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_ACTION_CONTINUE_EXECUTION
Continue execution after the window is closed.

For GLUT_WINDOW_CURSOR, valid values are any of the cursor types defined for glutSetCursor.

For GLUT_SKIP_STALE_MOTION_EVENTS, a non-zero value enables motion event skipping, which can improve performance.

For GLUT_MULTISAMPLE, the value specifies the number of samples to use for multisampling.

For GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT, valid values include:
.TP 8
.B GLUT_USE_CURRENT_CONTEXT
Use the current OpenGL context.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_FORCE_INDIRECT_CONTEXT
Force indirect rendering context.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_TRY_DIRECT_CONTEXT
Try direct rendering context, fall back to indirect.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_FORCE_DIRECT_CONTEXT
Force direct rendering context, fail if not available.

For GLUT_GEOMETRY_VISUALIZE_NORMALS, a non-zero value enables visualization of normals when rendering geometric primitives.

GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT_VERSION_MAJOR and GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT_VERSION_MINOR set the OpenGL context version. This is an alternative to using glutInitContextVersion.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Configure FreeGLUT to return from glutMainLoop when all windows are closed */
glutSetOption(GLUT_ACTION_ON_WINDOW_CLOSE, GLUT_ACTION_GLUTMAINLOOP_RETURNS);

/* Enable 4x multisampling for antialiasing */
glutSetOption(GLUT_MULTISAMPLE, 4);

/* Use direct rendering context if available */
glutSetOption(GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT, GLUT_TRY_DIRECT_CONTEXT);

/* Enable visualization of normals for geometric primitives */
glutSetOption(GLUT_GEOMETRY_VISUALIZE_NORMALS, 1);

/* Set OpenGL context version to 3.3 (alternative to glutInitContextVersion) */
glutSetOption(GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT_VERSION_MAJOR, 3);
glutSetOption(GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT_VERSION_MINOR, 3);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutInitDisplayMode, glutInitContextVersion, glutInitContextProfile, glutInitContextFlags, glutSetCursor, glutLeaveMainLoop
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors