.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\" Modifications Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutReportErrors 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutReportErrors - checks for OpenGL errors and reports them.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutReportErrors(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutReportErrors checks for OpenGL errors by repeatedly calling glGetError until it returns GL_NO_ERROR. For each error detected, it calls the current FreeGLUT error handler with a descriptive error message.

By default, this prints error messages to stderr, but the behavior can be customized by using glutInitErrorFunc to register a custom error handler.

This function is useful for debugging OpenGL applications. It's a good practice to call this function at strategic points in your rendering code to catch and report OpenGL errors as they occur.

The error messages include both the symbolic name (e.g., GL_INVALID_VALUE) and a descriptive string for each error.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* At the end of each frame, check for OpenGL errors */
void display(void)
{
    /* Clear the buffers */
    glClear(GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT | GL_DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT);

    /* Render the scene */
    // ...rendering code...

    /* Swap buffers */
    glutSwapBuffers();

    /* Check for OpenGL errors */
    glutReportErrors();
}

/* You can also use it after initialization */
void init(void)
{
    /* Set up OpenGL state */
    // ...initialization code...

    /* Check for errors in the initialization process */
    glutReportErrors();
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutInitErrorFunc, glGetError
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
.SH ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
FreeGLUT contributors
