.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutJoystickSetSaturation 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutJoystickSetSaturation - sets the joystick saturation.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutJoystickSetSaturation(int joystick, float saturation_x, float saturation_y, float saturation_z);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIjoystick\fP 1i
The joystick number, starting at 0.
.IP \fIsaturation_x\fP 1i
Saturation threshold for the X axis.
.IP \fIsaturation_y\fP 1i
Saturation threshold for the Y axis.
.IP \fIsaturation_z\fP 1i
Saturation threshold for the Z axis.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutJoystickSetSaturation sets the saturation threshold for the specified joystick. The saturation threshold is a value at which the joystick axis is considered to be at its maximum extent. Values beyond this threshold are clamped to 1.0 or -1.0, depending on the direction.

Saturation values are specified for the X, Y, and Z axes as floating-point values. Values are usually in the range of 0.0 (maximum saturation, where any movement saturates the output) to 1.0 (no saturation).

This function allows applications to calibrate joysticks that do not reach the full expected range values due to physical limitations or differences in hardware.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH SEE ALSO
glutJoystickFunc, glutForceJoystickFunc, glutJoystickSetDeadBand
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors