.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutInitDisplayString 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutInitDisplayString - specifies display capabilities by string.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutInitDisplayString(const char *displayString);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplayString\fP 1i
A string describing the desired display capabilities.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutInitDisplayString specifies desired display capabilities as a string. This function provides a more flexible alternative to glutInitDisplayMode.

The display string is a space-separated list of capability descriptions in the form of "name" or "name=value", where value can be a number or a string. Each capability description specifies a boolean capability (without a value), an integer value (with a value), or a string value.

The supported capability names include:
.TP 8
.B rgba
Red, green, blue, alpha color planes
.TP 8
.B rgb
Red, green, blue color planes
.TP 8
.B luminance
Luminance color planes
.TP 8
.B index
Color index mode
.TP 8
.B alpha
Alpha color planes
.TP 8
.B depth
Depth buffer
.TP 8
.B stencil
Stencil buffer
.TP 8
.B double
Double buffering
.TP 8
.B single
Single buffering
.TP 8
.B accum
Accumulation buffer
.TP 8
.B stereo
Stereo rendering
.TP 8
.B multisample
Multisampling antialiasing
.TP 8
.B samples
Number of samples for multisampling (e.g., "samples=4")
.TP 8
.B aux
Number of auxiliary buffers (e.g., "aux=2")
.TP 8
.B red
Number of red bits (e.g., "red=8")
.TP 8
.B green
Number of green bits (e.g., "green=8")
.TP
.B blue
Number of blue bits (e.g., "blue=8")
.TP 8
.B conformant
Whether the context should be conformant

The specified capabilities are used as a hint to FreeGLUT when creating a window. The actual capabilities of the created window may differ depending on the hardware and windowing system.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Request RGBA color with 8 bits per component, a depth buffer, 
   double buffering, and 4x multisampling */
glutInitDisplayString("rgba red=8 green=8 blue=8 alpha=8 depth double samples=4");

/* Alternative approach using glutInitDisplayMode */
/* glutInitDisplayMode(GLUT_RGBA | GLUT_DEPTH | GLUT_DOUBLE | GLUT_MULTISAMPLE); */
/* glutSetOption(GLUT_MULTISAMPLE, 4); */

glutCreateWindow("Display String Example");
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutInitDisplayMode, glutCreateWindow
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
.SH ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
FreeGLUT contributors
