.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\" Modifications Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutSetCursor 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSetCursor - sets the cursor image for the current window.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSetCursor(int cursor);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcursor\fP 1i
Name of cursor image to use for the cursor within the current window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSetCursor sets the cursor image for the current window. Each window
has a unique cursor image. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_RIGHT_ARROW
Arrow pointing right.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_ARROW
Arrow pointing left.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_INFO
Information.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_DESTROY
Destroy.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_HELP
Help.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_CYCLE
Cycle.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_SPRAY
Spray.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_WAIT
Wait.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TEXT
Text.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_CROSSHAIR
Crosshair.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_UP_DOWN
Up and down arrows.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_RIGHT
Left and right arrows.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_SIDE
Top side.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_SIDE
Bottom side.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_SIDE
Left side.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_RIGHT_SIDE
Right side.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_LEFT_CORNER
Top left corner.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_RIGHT_CORNER
Top right corner.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_RIGHT_CORNER
Bottom right corner.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_LEFT_CORNER
Bottom left corner.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_FULL_CROSSHAIR
Full crosshair.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_NONE
No cursor.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_INHERIT
Inherit cursor from parent window. Only effective for subwindows.

The exact cursor images used are implementation dependent. The intent
is for the cursor images to be recognizable standard cursor images
for the window system.
.SH SEE ALSO
glutWarpPointer
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
.SH ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
FreeGLUT contributors
