.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutBitmapString 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutBitmapString, glutStrokeString - render a string using bitmap or stroke fonts.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutBitmapString(void *font, const unsigned char *string);
void glutStrokeString(void *font, const unsigned char *string);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
The GLUT font identifier, one of GLUT_BITMAP_* or GLUT_STROKE_* constants.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
The null-terminated string to render.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutBitmapString renders a string using the specified bitmap font at the current raster position. It is similar to calling glutBitmapCharacter repeatedly for each character in the string, but may be more efficient.

glutStrokeString renders a string using the specified stroke font with the current OpenGL color and raster position. It is similar to calling glutStrokeCharacter repeatedly for each character in the string, but may be more efficient.

Both functions advance the raster position as they render each character. For glutBitmapString, the advance is in pixels. For glutStrokeString, the advance is in modeling units.

These functions are more convenient and potentially more efficient than using glutBitmapCharacter or glutStrokeCharacter in a loop when rendering a complete string.

These functions are FreeGLUT extensions and are not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
void renderBitmapText(float x, float y, void *font, const char *text)
{
    glRasterPos2f(x, y);
    glutBitmapString(font, (const unsigned char*)text);
}

void renderStrokeText(float x, float y, float scale, void *font, const char *text)
{
    glPushMatrix();
    glTranslatef(x, y, 0);
    glScalef(scale, scale, scale);
    glutStrokeString(font, (const unsigned char*)text);
    glPopMatrix();
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutBitmapCharacter, glutBitmapWidth, glutBitmapLength, glutBitmapHeight, glutStrokeCharacter, glutStrokeWidth, glutStrokeLength, glutStrokeHeight
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors