.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutWindowStatusFunc 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutWindowStatusFunc - sets the window status callback for the current window.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutWindowStatusFunc(void (*callback)(int state));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcallback\fP 1i
The new window status callback function.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutWindowStatusFunc sets the window status callback for the current window. The window status callback is triggered when the window's status changes, such as when it is minimized, restored, or maximized.

The callback function receives a state parameter that indicates the new status of the window. Possible values for state are:
.TP 8
.B GLUT_HIDDEN
The window is hidden (minimized or iconified).
.TP 8
.B GLUT_FULLY_RETAINED
The window is fully retained (restored or normal state).
.TP 8
.B GLUT_PARTIALLY_RETAINED
The window is partially retained.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_FULLY_COVERED
The window is fully covered by other windows.

This function is useful for applications that need to respond to changes in window visibility or state, such as pausing rendering or animations when minimized, or adjusting resource usage based on window state.

If the callback parameter is NULL, the window status callback is disabled.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
void windowStatusCallback(int state)
{
    switch (state) {
    case GLUT_HIDDEN:
        /* Window is minimized */
        printf("Window minimized\\n");
        pauseAnimation = true;
        break;

    case GLUT_FULLY_RETAINED:
        /* Window is restored to normal or maximized */
        printf("Window restored or maximized\\n");
        pauseAnimation = false;
        break;

    case GLUT_PARTIALLY_RETAINED:
        /* Window is partially visible */
        printf("Window partially visible\\n");
        break;

    case GLUT_FULLY_COVERED:
        /* Window is completely covered by other windows */
        printf("Window fully covered\\n");
        break;
    }

    /* Adjust rendering or resource usage based on window state */
    if (pauseAnimation) {
        glutIdleFunc(NULL);  /* Disable animation when minimized */
    } else {
        glutIdleFunc(animate);  /* Re-enable animation when restored */
    }
}

/* In initialization code */
glutWindowStatusFunc(windowStatusCallback);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutVisibilityFunc, glutShowWindow, glutHideWindow, glutIconifyWindow
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors
