.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutSolidTeacup 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSolidTeacup, glutWireTeacup - render a solid or wireframe teacup respectively
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSolidTeacup(GLdouble size);
void glutWireTeacup(GLdouble size);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIsize\fP 1i
Relative size of the teacup.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSolidTeacup and glutWireTeacup render a solid or wireframe teacup respectively. The teacup is rendered centered at the modeling coordinates origin with a size specified by the size parameter.

The teacup model is part of the "Utah teapot" set, which includes a teapot, teacup, and teaspoon. These are commonly used 3D models in computer graphics, originally created by Martin Newell in 1975.

These functions are FreeGLUT extensions and are not available in the original GLUT library, which only provided the teapot.

Texture coordinates are generated for the teacup, making it usable with textured rendering. If GLUT_GEOMETRY_VISUALIZE_NORMALS has been set to true using glutSetOption, the normal vectors for each vertex will also be visualized.

.SH SEE ALSO
glutSolidTeapot, glutSolidTeaspoon, glutSolidSphere, glutSolidCube, glutSolidCone, glutSolidTorus, glutSolidDodecahedron, glutSolidOctahedron, glutSolidTetrahedron, glutSolidIcosahedron, glutSolidRhombicDodecahedron, glutWireTeapot, glutWireTeaspoon, glutSetOption, glutSetVertexAttribCoord3, glutSetVertexAttribNormal, glutSetVertexAttribTexCoord2
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors