.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutStrokeStringLength 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutStrokeStringLength - returns the length of a string drawn using the stroke font.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
float glutStrokeStringLength(void *font, const unsigned char *string, float length, float height);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
The GLUT stroke font identifier, one of GLUT_STROKE_* constants.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
The null-terminated string to measure.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The maximum allowed length for the text. If <= 0.0, no limit is imposed.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
The desired height for the text. If <= 0.0, the standard font height is used.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutStrokeStringLength calculates the length of a string when rendered using the specified stroke font. This function is particularly useful when rendering constrained text that needs to fit within a certain width, as it provides a way to adjust the text scale or truncate the text as needed.

Unlike glutStrokeLength, which simply returns the raw sum of character widths, this function allows for setting a maximum length and a custom height, providing more control over text rendering.

If the length parameter is positive, the function calculates how much of the string will fit within that length. If the height parameter is positive, the function scales the measurements accordingly.

The return value is the actual width the string would occupy when rendered.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Render text that fits within a maximum width */
void renderFittedText(float x, float y, float maxWidth, float height, 
                      void *font, const char *text)
{
    /* Calculate how much of the text will fit */
    float actualWidth = glutStrokeStringLength(font, 
                                             (const unsigned char*)text,
                                             maxWidth, height);

    /* Scale to fit if needed */
    float scale = (actualWidth > maxWidth) ? (maxWidth / actualWidth) : 1.0f;
    scale *= (height > 0) ? height / glutStrokeHeight(font) : 1.0f;

    /* Render the text */
    glPushMatrix();
    glTranslatef(x, y, 0);
    glScalef(scale, scale, scale);
    glutStrokeString(font, (const unsigned char*)text);
    glPopMatrix();
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutStrokeCharacter, glutStrokeString, glutStrokeLength, glutStrokeHeight, glutStrokeWidth
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors