.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutSpecialUpFunc 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSpecialUpFunc - sets the special key release callback for the current window.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSpecialUpFunc(void (*func)(int key, int x, int y));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new special key release callback function. The callback function parameters are the same as for glutSpecialFunc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSpecialUpFunc sets the special key release callback for the current window. When a user releases a special key on the keyboard, the special key release callback for the current window is called with an integer value representing the special key as the first argument, and the mouse's current (x,y) coordinates as the second and third arguments.

Special keys include function keys (F1 through F12), arrow keys, Page Up, Page Down, Home, End, Insert, Delete, and other non-ASCII keys.

Like other mouse and keyboard callbacks, the callback function is not guaranteed to be called if the key is released while the window doesn't have input focus.

The key release event complements the key press event from glutSpecialFunc, allowing applications to track both press and release events for special keys.

If the callback parameter is NULL, the special key release callback is disabled.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH SEE ALSO
glutSpecialFunc, glutKeyboardFunc, glutKeyboardUpFunc, glutGetModifiers
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors
