.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutWindowData 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSetWindowData, glutGetWindowData - set or get per-window user data pointer.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSetWindowData(void *data);
void* glutGetWindowData(void);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Pointer to arbitrary user data to be associated with the current window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSetWindowData associates a pointer to arbitrary user data with the current window. This is useful for storing window-specific application state that needs to be accessed within callbacks.

glutGetWindowData retrieves the pointer to user data that was previously associated with the current window. If no data has been set for the current window, NULL is returned.

These functions provide a convenient way to associate application-specific data with a window without using global variables or custom management structures. The window-specific data can be accessed in any callback by first calling glutGetWindow to determine the current window and then glutGetWindowData to retrieve the associated data.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
typedef struct {
    float zoom;
    int wireframe;
    /* other window-specific state */
} WindowState;

void display(void)
{
    /* Get the state information for this window */
    WindowState *state = (WindowState*)glutGetWindowData();

    /* Use the window-specific state in rendering */
    if (state) {
        glMatrixMode(GL_PROJECTION);
        glLoadIdentity();
        glOrtho(-state->zoom, state->zoom, -state->zoom, state->zoom, -1, 1);
        /* ... */
    }

    /* Draw the scene */
}

void createWindow(const char* title)
{
    int winID = glutCreateWindow(title);

    /* Allocate and initialize window-specific data */
    WindowState *state = malloc(sizeof(WindowState));
    state->zoom = 1.0f;
    state->wireframe = 0;

    /* Associate the data with the window */
    glutSetWindowData(state);

    /* Set up callbacks */
    glutDisplayFunc(display);
    /* ... */
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutSetWindow, glutGetWindow, glutSetMenuData, glutGetMenuData
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors