.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutSetKeyRepeat 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSetKeyRepeat - sets the global key repeat mode.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSetKeyRepeat(int repeatMode);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIrepeatMode\fP 1i
The key repeat mode. Valid values are:
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_REPEAT_OFF
Disable key repeat for GLUT keyboard callbacks.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_REPEAT_ON
Enable key repeat for GLUT keyboard callbacks.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_REPEAT_DEFAULT
Use the default key repeat behavior of the window system.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSetKeyRepeat sets the global key repeat mode for GLUT keyboard callbacks. When key repeat is enabled, holding down a key will generate multiple callback invocations. When disabled, only key presses (not repeats) generate callbacks.

This function affects how keyboard events are handled by glutKeyboardFunc, glutSpecialFunc, and their respective release callbacks, glutKeyboardUpFunc and glutSpecialUpFunc.

By default, key repeat is enabled (GLUT_KEY_REPEAT_ON). Disabling key repeat can be useful for applications where multiple rapid callbacks from holding a key are not desirable, such as in certain games or UI interactions.

Note that this function sets the global key repeat mode, affecting all windows in the application.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Disable key repeat for more precise keyboard control in games */
glutSetKeyRepeat(GLUT_KEY_REPEAT_OFF);

/* Key handlers will now only be called once per key press */
glutKeyboardFunc(keyboardHandler);
glutSpecialFunc(specialHandler);

/* Later, restore default behavior if needed */
glutSetKeyRepeat(GLUT_KEY_REPEAT_DEFAULT);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
glutKeyboardFunc, glutSpecialFunc, glutKeyboardUpFunc, glutSpecialUpFunc, glutIgnoreKeyRepeat
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors
