.\"
.\" Copyright (c) FreeGLUT contributors, 2000-2025.
.\"
.\" See the file "man/LICENSE" for information on usage and redistribution
.\"
.TH glutKeyboardUpFunc 3GLUT "3.8" "FreeGLUT" "FreeGLUT"
.SH NAME
glutKeyboardUpFunc - sets the keyboard key release callback for the current window.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutKeyboardUpFunc(void (*func)(unsigned char key, int x, int y));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new keyboard key release callback function. The callback function parameters are the same as for glutKeyboardFunc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutKeyboardUpFunc sets the keyboard key release callback for the current window. When a user releases a key on the keyboard, the key release callback for the current window is called with the ASCII code of the key as the first argument, and the mouse's current (x,y) coordinates as the second and third arguments. The state of modifier keys such as Shift cannot be determined directly; their effect will be reflected in the character codes delivered to the callback (e.g., 'A' instead of 'a' when the Shift key is pressed).

Like other mouse and keyboard callbacks, the callback function is not guaranteed to be called if the key is released while the window doesn't have input focus.

The key release event complements the key press event from glutKeyboardFunc, allowing applications to track both press and release events for keys.

If the callback parameter is NULL, the keyboard key release callback is disabled.

This function is a FreeGLUT extension and is not available in the original GLUT library.

.SH SEE ALSO
glutKeyboardFunc, glutSpecialFunc, glutSpecialUpFunc, glutGetModifiers
.SH AUTHOR
FreeGLUT contributors
